README.md, before:

# MiniScaffold
F# Template for creating and publishing libraries targeting .NET Full (net45) and Core (netstandard1.6)

## Builds

MacOS/Linux | Windows
:---: | :---:
[![Travis Badge](https://travis-ci.org/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold) | [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/rvwrjthtnew2digr/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/TheAngryByrd/miniscaffold/branch/master)
[![Build History](https://buildstats.info/travisci/chart/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold)](https://travis-ci.org/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold/builds) | [![Build History](https://buildstats.info/appveyor/chart/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold)

## Nuget


Stable | Prerelease
:---: | :---:
[![NuGet Badge](https://buildstats.info/nuget/MiniScaffold)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/MiniScaffold/) | [![NuGet Badge](https://buildstats.info/nuget/MiniScaffold?includePreReleases=true)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/MiniScaffold/)



## Getting started

### Grab the template from nuget:

```
dotnet new -i "MiniScaffold::*"
```

### Use the new template:

```
dotnet new mini-scaffold -n MyCoolNewLib --githubUsername MyGithubUsername
cd MyCoolNewLib
```

It will scaffold out something similar to:

```
$ tree
.
├── LICENSE.md
├── README.md
├── RELEASE_NOTES.md
├── build.cmd
├── build.fsx
├── build.sh
├── paket.dependencies
├── paket.lock
├── src
│   └── MyCoolNewLib
│       ├── Library.fs
│       └── MyCoolNewLib.fsproj
└── tests
    └── MyCoolNewLib.Tests
        ├── MyCoolNewLib.Tests.fsproj
        └── Tests.fs
```

### Build!

```
> build.cmd // on windows
$ ./build.sh  // on unix
```

The bin of your new lib should look similar to:

```
$ tree src/MyCoolNewLib/bin/
src/MyCoolNewLib/bin/
└── Release
    ├── net45
    │   ├── FSharp.Core.dll
    │   ├── MyCoolNewLib.dll
    │   └── MyCoolNewLib.pdb
    └── netstandard1.6
        ├── MyCoolNewLib.deps.json
        ├── MyCoolNewLib.dll
        └── MyCoolNewLib.pdb

```

### Watch Tests

The `WatchTests` target will use [dotnet-watch](https://github.com/aspnet/Docs/blob/master/aspnetcore/tutorials/dotnet-watch.md) to watch for changes in your lib or tests and re-run your tests on all `TargetFrameworks`

```
./build.sh WatchTests
```

### Release!
* [Start a git repo with a remote](https://help.github.com/articles/adding-an-existing-project-to-github-using-the-command-line/)

```
git add .
git commit -m "Scaffold"
git remote add origin origin https://github.com/user/MyCoolNewLib.git
git push -u origin master
```

* [Add your nuget API key to paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/paket-config.html#Adding-a-NuGet-API-key)

```
paket config add-token "https://www.nuget.org" 4003d786-cc37-4004-bfdf-c4f3e8ef9b3a
```


* Then update the `RELEASE_NOTES.md` with a new version, date, and release notes [ReleaseNotesHelper](https://fsharp.github.io/FAKE/apidocs/fake-releasenoteshelper.html)

```
#### 0.2.0 - 30.04.2017
* FEATURE: Does cool stuff!
* BUGFIX: Fixes that silly oversight
```

* You can then use the `Release` target.  This will:
    * make a commit bumping the version:  `Bump version to 0.2.0`
    * publish the package to nuget
    * push a git tag

```
./build.sh Release
```



#### Example Projects using this template:
* [Chessie.Hopac](https://github.com/TheAngryByrd/Chessie.Hopac)
* [Marten.FSharp](https://github.com/TheAngryByrd/Marten.FSharp)


#### This project uses the following F# projects
* [Paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/)
* [FAKE](https://fsharp.github.io/FAKE/)
* [Expecto](https://github.com/haf/expecto)
* Heavily inspired by [Project Scaffold](https://github.com/fsprojects/ProjectScaffold)
* [Buildstats.info](https://github.com/dustinmoris/CI-BuildStats)

Commit message:

README about build.sh permission issues

README.md, after:

# MiniScaffold
F# Template for creating and publishing libraries targeting .NET Full (net45) and Core (netstandard1.6)

## Builds

MacOS/Linux | Windows
:---: | :---:
[![Travis Badge](https://travis-ci.org/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold) | [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/rvwrjthtnew2digr/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/TheAngryByrd/miniscaffold/branch/master)
[![Build History](https://buildstats.info/travisci/chart/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold)](https://travis-ci.org/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold/builds) | [![Build History](https://buildstats.info/appveyor/chart/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold)

## Nuget


Stable | Prerelease
:---: | :---:
[![NuGet Badge](https://buildstats.info/nuget/MiniScaffold)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/MiniScaffold/) | [![NuGet Badge](https://buildstats.info/nuget/MiniScaffold?includePreReleases=true)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/MiniScaffold/)



## Getting started

### Grab the template from nuget:

```
dotnet new -i "MiniScaffold::*"
```

### Use the new template:

```
dotnet new mini-scaffold -n MyCoolNewLib --githubUsername MyGithubUsername
cd MyCoolNewLib
```

It will scaffold out something similar to:

```
$ tree
.
├── LICENSE.md
├── README.md
├── RELEASE_NOTES.md
├── build.cmd
├── build.fsx
├── build.sh
├── paket.dependencies
├── paket.lock
├── src
│   └── MyCoolNewLib
│       ├── Library.fs
│       └── MyCoolNewLib.fsproj
└── tests
    └── MyCoolNewLib.Tests
        ├── MyCoolNewLib.Tests.fsproj
        └── Tests.fs
```

### Build!

```
> build.cmd // on windows
$ ./build.sh  // on unix
```

The bin of your new lib should look similar to:

```
$ tree src/MyCoolNewLib/bin/
src/MyCoolNewLib/bin/
└── Release
    ├── net45
    │   ├── FSharp.Core.dll
    │   ├── MyCoolNewLib.dll
    │   └── MyCoolNewLib.pdb
    └── netstandard1.6
        ├── MyCoolNewLib.deps.json
        ├── MyCoolNewLib.dll
        └── MyCoolNewLib.pdb

```

### Watch Tests

The `WatchTests` target will use [dotnet-watch](https://github.com/aspnet/Docs/blob/master/aspnetcore/tutorials/dotnet-watch.md) to watch for changes in your lib or tests and re-run your tests on all `TargetFrameworks`

```
./build.sh WatchTests
```

### Release!
* [Start a git repo with a remote](https://help.github.com/articles/adding-an-existing-project-to-github-using-the-command-line/)

```
git add .
git commit -m "Scaffold"
git remote add origin origin https://github.com/user/MyCoolNewLib.git
git push -u origin master
```

* [Add your nuget API key to paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/paket-config.html#Adding-a-NuGet-API-key)

```
paket config add-token "https://www.nuget.org" 4003d786-cc37-4004-bfdf-c4f3e8ef9b3a
```


* Then update the `RELEASE_NOTES.md` with a new version, date, and release notes [ReleaseNotesHelper](https://fsharp.github.io/FAKE/apidocs/fake-releasenoteshelper.html)

```
#### 0.2.0 - 30.04.2017
* FEATURE: Does cool stuff!
* BUGFIX: Fixes that silly oversight
```

* You can then use the `Release` target.  This will:
    * make a commit bumping the version:  `Bump version to 0.2.0`
    * publish the package to nuget
    * push a git tag

```
./build.sh Release
```


## Known issues

```
-bash: ./build.sh: Permission denied
```

This is because dotnet template loses permissions of files. (https://github.com/TheAngryByrd/MiniScaffold/pull/37) added a post hook to address this but this only fixes it for dotnet sdk 2.x users.  dotnet sdk 1.x will need to run `chmod +x ./build.sh`


#### Example Projects using this template:
* [Chessie.Hopac](https://github.com/TheAngryByrd/Chessie.Hopac)
* [Marten.FSharp](https://github.com/TheAngryByrd/Marten.FSharp)


#### This project uses the following F# projects
* [Paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/)
* [FAKE](https://fsharp.github.io/FAKE/)
* [Expecto](https://github.com/haf/expecto)
* Heavily inspired by [Project Scaffold](https://github.com/fsprojects/ProjectScaffold)
* [Buildstats.info](https://github.com/dustinmoris/CI-BuildStats)
